summary of problems still to be addressed:

proptest gets two additional test failures when updated for the
new rand, I have opened a bug report about this upstream. It appears that this
is caused by rand deciding to panic rather than returning bad results for very
large floating point ranges. After some testing I don't belive this will have
any downstream impacts and plan to just disable the tests in question.

We need to figure out what to do about rust-petgraph, I tried to port it to the
new version of rust-quickcheck but failed, i'm leaning towards simply removing
the quickcheck feature from petgraph.

newsboat is maintained outside the rust team, it's maintainer is happy with a
NMu.

details of individual packages:

random family crates:

rust-getrandom:
   new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental
rust-rand:
   new version tested and uploaded to experimental.
rust-rand-chacha:
   new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental
rust-rand-core:
   new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental
rust-rand-hc:
   new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental
rust-rand-isaac:
   not investigated yet.
rust-rand-os:
  no new upstream, suggest removal.
rust-rand-pcg:
  new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental
rust-rand-xorshift:
  new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental
rust-rand-xoshiro
  new upstream version tested and uploaded to experimental


Direct reverse-dependencies of rust-getrandom:

rust-const-random-macro:
   new upstream version tested but not uploaded
rust-memsec:
   dependency relaxation tested but not uploaded. Has issues (binary renamed, 
   and test failure due to no-default-features) with current debcargo
rust-nettle: new upstream version tested but not uploaded


Reverse dependencies of rust-rand*

elan:
   builds after some patching of dependencies, no tests run.
newsboat:
   builds after patching of dependencies, tests appear to be run as part of
   build, not rust team, bug filed at
   https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=1004259
rust-extprim
   just a dependency bump needed for rand, I also fixed some other issues with
   the testsuite.
rust-hyperfine:
   not in testing, not investigated yet.
rust-im-rc
   rand dependency was dealt with with a simple patch, but it
   took a bit of effort to get the testsuite to work.
rust-nitrokey
   unstable version:
       rand dependency bumped, unfortunately I was not able to run the testsuite
       due to unrelated issues, but I was able to use it to build nitrocli, so that
       is good enough for me.
    experimental version:
       rand dependency bumped, unfortunately I was not able to run the testsuite
       due to unrelated issues.
rust-num-bigint
   builds fine and tests pass after dropping Debian patches.
rust-num-complex
   builds fine and tests pass after dropping Debian patch
rust-parking-lot-core-0.4
   builds fine and tests pass after updating patch.
rust-pbkdf2
   not in testing
   tests pass in an upstream context after updating to 0.6.0 (newer versions 
   introduce unwanted dependencies) and patching rand dependency. Unable to run
   tests in a Debian context due to breakage in rust-sha-1
rust-phf-generator
   needs an older version (2.4.4) of debcargo for phf-generator 0.8
   there was also a newer version of phf-generator in debcargo-conf which should
   be restored when the rand transition is done.
   autopkgtest passes with new rand after removing dev-dependency on criterion.
rust-pleaser
   not investigated yet
rust-proptest:
   patch applied from upstream, but introduces 4 new test failures, i've
   uploaded it to experimental with the tests in question disabled and after
   some discussion upstream and some testing of packages that use proptest
   plan to do the same in unstable.
rust-petgraph:
   Failed to port to new quickcheck, will probablly drop feature. Also seems to
   have issues running tests with no-default-features which will need to be
   looked at.
rust-quickcheck 
   updating to 1.0 (which has switched tor rand 0.8 upstream seems the most
   sensible course of action, though it has it's own reverse-dependencies to
   deal with.
rust-statistical
   not in testing not investigated yet
rust-rspotify
   not in testing, broken in unstable I don't intend to touch this.
rust-tempfile:
   tests passed after updating to 3.2.0 (3.3.0 has dependencies which can't be 
   satisfied without adding new packages)
rust-time
   not investigated yet
rust-trust-dns-proto
   not investigated yet
rust-uuid
   not investigated yet


Packages depending on rust-quickcheck

rust-diesel
  not in testing. many unsatisfiable dependencies (at least one not in Debian at all)
rust-im-rc:
  patched for quickcheck at the same time as rand
rust-num-bigint:
   builds fine and tests pass after dropping Debian patches.
rust-petgraph:
  Failed to port to new quickcheck, will probablly drop feature.

Crates that showed up in searches, but didn't turn out to be related to rand

rust-random:
  different random number generator whose name starts with rust-rand


